creating new access mgmt ESC section (#14071)
pulumi/docs: content/docs/esc/get-started/use-short-term-credentials.md

---

> title_tag: Use Short Term Cloud Credentials | Pulumi ESC

Reviewer: This is specific to AWS

title: Use short term cloud credentials
h1: "Use Short Term Cloud Credentials to Run Commands Without Local Secrets"

> meta_desc: This page provides an overview on how to get short term cloud credeitnals and run commands without using local secrets using the "esc run" command.

Reviewer 2: "credeitnals" spelling

weight: 6
menu:
  esc:
    parent: esc-get-started
---

> Managing cloud credentials presents significant challenges for organizations of all sizes. Static, long-lived credentials, especially those stored in local environments introduce security risks and operational issues. Pulumi ESC’s built-in support for [dynamic login providers](/docs/esc/integrations/dynamic-login-credentials/), allows for best-practices like generating signed, short-term, scoped credentials issued via OIDC. These credentials can then be used in both Pulumi IaC workflows and external CLIs such as `aws`, `kubectl`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Managing cloud credentials presents significant challenges for organizations of all sizes. Static, long-lived credentials, especially those stored in local environments introduce security risks and operational issues. Pulumi ESC’s built-in support for [dynamic login providers](/docs/esc/integrations/dynamic-login-credentials/), allows you to generate short-term, scoped credentials via OIDC. These credentials can then be used in your CLI workflows, CI/CD, Pulumi IaC, and more!
```

> In this example you will use the `esc run` command to execute AWS cli operations without having to manually configure AWS credentials in your local environment.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this example, you will use the `esc run` command to execute AWS CLI operations without having to manually configure AWS credentials in your local environment.
```

## Create the AWS OIDC configuration

> To use dynamic credentials, you need to configure [OpenID Connect (OIDC)](/docs/esc/environments/configuring-oidc/) between Pulumi ESC and AWS. This requires creating two resources in AWS:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To use dynamic credentials, you need to configure OpenID Connect (OIDC) between Pulumi ESC and AWS. This requires creating two resources in AWS:
```

1. An IAM OIDC provider
2. An IAM role that trusts this provider and provides the necessary permissions

### Create the OIDC provider

> 1. Navigate to the [IAM console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to the [AWS IAM console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/)
```

2. In the navigation pane, choose **Identity providers**, then **Add provider**
3. Select **OpenID Connect** as the provider type
4. For the Provider URL, enter: `https://api.pulumi.com/oidc`
5. For the Audience, enter your Pulumi organization name
6. Click **Add provider**

### Create the IAM role

1. After creating the provider, click **Assign role** in the notification prompt
2. Select **Create a new role**

> 3. Ensure **Web identity** is selected, and verify:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. Ensure **Web identity** is selected, and verify that 
```

>    - The `api.pulumi.com/oidc` provider is selected

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   - `api.pulumi.com/oidc` provider is selected
```

   - Your Pulumi organization is selected as the audience
4. Click **Next**

> 5. Select the permissions your role needs (**AmazonS3FullAccess** for S3 operations)

Reviewer 2: add "e.g." to the parenthetical clause

6. Click **Next**
7. Name your role (e.g., `pulumi-esc-s3-role`) and add an optional description
8. Click **Edit** on the Select trusted entities' section

> 9. Ensure the "Condition" subject claim includes `aws:` before your organization name (i.e.`"api.pulumi.com/oidc:aud": "aws:myorg"` )

Reviewer 3: I would add a snipped of the trust policy to see how it should appear. IT isn't clear per the description here.

Author: done

```

You should be presented with a list of S3 buckets in the account associated with your credentials.

```bash

# example command and output
esc run pulumi/my-project/dev-environment aws s3 ls

2023-12-10 02:52:46 my-bucket-4a67543
2023-11-16 21:37:40 my-bucket-4b1e6cb
2023-10-27 21:04:59 my-bucket-50da4ad
2023-11-02 18:57:36 my-bucket-51385eb
```

Behind the scenes, Pulumi ESC dynamically generated short-lived AWS credentials by assuming the IAM role you configured. These credentials are injected into the command environment as variables, allowing the AWS CLI to use them for authentication.

ESC dynamic credentials and the `esc run` command can be used for various scenarios:

- **CI/CD pipelines**: Use dynamic credentials in your automation workflows
- **Application testing**: Run tests against cloud resources without managing credentials
- **Secure script execution**: Execute scripts that interact with AWS without embedding credentials
- **Team collaboration**: Provide team members with secure, scoped access to resources

## Additional OIDC authentication configurations

See the following guides to set up OIDC between Pulumi ESC and your specific cloud provider:

> - [Configuring OIDC for AWS](/docs/pulumi-cloud/oidc/provider/aws/)

Reviewer 3: this is the part where it gets hard to find what we are looking for. 

How is this link different than the configuring OIDC section you created under "Working with Environments"? 

The page we take the users to adds friction as it is hard to peace apart what ESC things they need to know
